Good evening ladies and gentlemen. A
very warm welcome to the ICICI Lombard
General Insurance Company Limiteds Q2
NH1FI 2026 earnings conference call from
the senior management we have with us
today Mr. Sanjie Mantri MD and CEO of
the company Mr. Gopal Balachandran CFO
Mr. Anand Singhi Chief Retail and
Government
Mr. Girishna, Chief Technology and
Health Underwriting and Claims, Mr. Sep
Goradia, Chief Corporate Solutions
International and Bank assurance. And
Mr. Goro Vora, Chief Reinsurance,
Underwriting and Claims for Property and
Casualty.
Please note that any statements comments
are made in today's call that may look
like forward-looking statements are
based on information presently available
to the management and do not constitute
an indication of any future performance
as future involve risks and
uncertaintities which could cause
results to defer materially from the
current views being expressed. As a
reminder, all participant lines will be
in the listenon mode and there will be
an opportunity for you to ask questions
after the presentation concludes. Should
you need
assistance during the conference call,
please signal an operator by pressing
star and then zero on your touchstone
phone. Please note that this conference
is being recorded. I now hand the
conference over to Mr. Sanjie Mantri, MD
and CEO ICICI Lumbar General Insurance
Limited. Thank you and over to you sir.
>> Thank you.
Good evening to each one of you. Thank
you for joining the earnings conference
call of ICSL Omar for quarter 2 and H1
financial year 2026.
I would like to commence with a brief
overview of the recent economic and
industry trends which have shaped the
operating environment over the past few
months. Following that our CFO Mr. Gopal
Walachandan will take you through the
company's financial performance for the
first half ended September 30th.
During the quarter ended June 2025, the
Indian economy sustained its robust
growth trajectory, registering a GDP
growth of 7.8% marking a 5-year quarter
high and surpassing expectations despite
global uncertaintities.
The sovereign credit rating upgrade by
S&P Global coming after 18 years
reflects enhanced confidence and India's
economic fundamentals, fiscal prudence
and related policies.
Following on the heels of the 100 basis
repo cuts and targeted income tax
incentives, the government has now
unveiled a landmark over of the GST
framework which is expected to
turbocharge consumer sentiment
by rationalizing rates and simplifying
compliance. The reforms are expected to
make essential goods and services more
accessible and affordable.
This is expected to unlock stronger
broad-based private consumption and
accelerate economic activity.
Collectively, these three policies
actions are projected to inject nearly
2,200 to 3,100 billion into the economy.
More importantly, these pathbreaking
reforms are expected to provide a
significant boost to the non-life
insurance sector.
The exemption of GST from individual
health insurance premium will make
healthcare protection more affordable
for households and is expected to
increase the lives covered.
In addition, the rationalization of GST
rates in the automoil sector has lowered
the overall cost of vehicle ownership.
We truly believe that this will increase
private mobility enabling more Indians
to own vehicles and encouraging upgrades
to premium models.
In line with our customer first
philosophy, we are committed to passing
the complete benefit of lower GST rates
to our policyh holders.
In conjunction with the above reforms, I
would like to upgrade on the quarter to
2026 number and dwell on the trends
observed along with their impact to the
general insurance industry.
The health segment continues to remain
the largest contributor to the industry
and accounts for almost 40% of GDPI mix
in H1 of 2026.
While the market continues to be
moderated due to the 1 byN accounting
norm post September 2025, we have
witnessed a significant uptick in the
retail indenity segment of the business.
We remain confident that more
individuals and families will continue
to enter the health insurance fold and
expand their coverage.
Now coming to the auto sector in quarter
2 2026 this is the data published by FDA
auto industry has grown by 1.3%.
The private car segment grew by 2.9 and
the two-heer segment has seen a modest
growth of.5%.
However, for the month of September
2025, private car sales grew at 5.8%
and two wheelers at 6.5% compared to
September 2024.
Notably and more importantly for the
first nine days of Navarati period the
private car and two wheelers growth
stood at 34.9 and 36% respectively when
compared to the Navarati period for 2025
which is a significantly positive even
after adjusting to pentup demand. These
trends coupled with our dominant
presence in the OEM space give us
confidence for a positive momentum in
the second half of the year.
While the global economic environment
remains volatile and uncertain, India's
strong macroeconomic fundamentals
supported by pro-conumption policy
stands. We are expected to which are
expected to act as a buffer and continue
to drive domestic economic momentum.
Given the supportive regulatory
environment, we expect general insurance
industry to sustain its growth
trajectory over medium to long term.
Now coming to the industry performance
for the period ended September 30, 2025.
The general insurance industry reported
a GDPI growth of 7.3% for the period
excluding crop and health segment. The
GDPI growth stood at 10.5%.
For the referred period H1 2026.
Speaking of specific segments within the
industry, the commercial segment
reported a growth of 14.2% 2% for the
period ending H1 2026. The growth was
majorly driven by the fire line of
business which witnessed a robust
increase of 20.5%
during the refer period and the same
contributes to more than 50% of the
commercial business. The motor segment
growth for the industry stood at 7.6%
for the period H1 2026.
This segment continues to face
significant pricing pressures as
reflected by higher industry combined
ratio for motor line of business.
However, as also spoken already, the
current with the current momentum, we
expect H2 of 2026 to reflect improved
growth levels with the first half of the
financial year.
The health segment including mass health
grew by 7.8% for the period ending H1
2026. Within this the group plan of
business grew at 8.9% for H1 2026
whereas the retail health growth stood
at 9.3% for H1 2026 impacted by the one
by end accounting norm. Speaking on the
underwriting performance of the industry
overall the combined ratio for the
industry deteriorated from 1 month 3.9%
in quarter 1 financial year 2025 to 115%
in quarter 1 2026.
The overall combined ratio for private
players remained flat at 110.8%
for the periods quarter 1 2025 with
110.7% for quarter 1 2026.
Combined ratio for the motor line of
business continues to remain elevated at
125% for quarter 1 2026.
Our continued emphasis on profitable
growth delivered a lower combined ratio
of 102.9% in quarter 1 2026 over 12
percentage point better than the
industry average. I will now proceed to
present a company's performance across
three business segments for the period
H1 2026.
The company reported a degrowth of.5% in
GDPI compared to the industry growth of
7.3% for the period H1 2026.
However, excluding the crop and mass
health segment, the company recorded a
growth of 3.5%
while the industry grew at 10.5% for the
period H1 2026.
In the commercial line segment, our
growth stood at 6.5% for H1 2026 as
compared to the industry growth of 14.2%
for the period H1 2026.
We continue to drive profitable growth
through prudent underwriting, judicious
risk selection and through our multi-
channelannel distribution. While growth
in the fire segment in quarter 1 2026
stood at 10.3%.
We have been able to steadily increase
growth in quarter 2 2026 to 27.3%.
Specifically in the month of September
2025, we grew at 36.4 in fire segment.
We retained our leadership position in
engineering liability and marine cargo
line of business for the period ended H1
2026.
Furthermore, we continue to play the
role of a risk solution partner to our
corporate customers to pro while
providing them best-in-class value added
services which helps them mitigate risk
with holistic management solutions.
In the motor segment, our growth stood
at 2.2% for H1 2026 as against the
industry growth of 7.6%
for the period H1 2026. While I grow
while our growth in the first 5 months
of the financial year stood at 1.3%.
The month of September 2025 witnessed a
sharp uptick due to the festive demand
and moderation of vehicle price
attributable to the GST rate cut. Taking
a motor influence growth to 6.5%.
In an increasingly competitive market
environment witnessed over the recent
quarters, we expect to maintain the
growth momentum that kicked off in
September while remaining focused on a
journey of profitable growth.
underpinned by continuous distribution
expansion and granular portfolio
segmentation.
Importantly, we continue to maintain our
leadership position in this segment with
a market share of 10.4% in H1 of 2026.
We remain agile and are constantly
taking conscious calls to optimize the
portfolio profitability. And a result of
these efforts a portfolio mix for
private car two-wheer and commercial
vehicles which stood at 52.9%
25.3% and 21.8% respectively for H1 2025
has moved to a mix of 54.3%
25.8% and 19.9% respectively in H1 of
2026.
In health segment we grew by 4.2% for H1
2026 as again the industry growth of
7.8% 8% for the period
on a 1 byN basis. Our retail business
demonstrated strong growth of 25.2%
for H1 2026
significantly outpacing the industry
growth of 9.3% as of H1 2026.
Consequently, our market share is
improved from 3.2% in H1 2025 to 3.7%
as of H1 2025. For the month of
September 2025, company has crossed 4%
market share in retail health and this
has happened for the first time. This
performance has been driven by an
ongoing product innovation and sustained
investment in strengthening our retail
health distribution capabilities.
This segment is expected to see an
upward trajectory due to the GST
reforms.
The growth the group health segment
recorded a degrowth of 6% for H1 2026
over H1 2025 with a market share being
at 8.7% as on H1 2026.
The observed degrowth is attributable to
a decline in business generated from the
health benefit portfolio on account of
muted disbursements in the unsecured and
micro finance sectors. However, on the
overall group health portfolio, we
continue to maintain a disciplined
approach and in the month of September
in particular, we have grown at 10.5% as
compared to industry degrowth of one of
1.8%.
I would also like to apprise you of
certain strategic initiatives that
continue to drive operational excellence
and customer centricity across the
organization.
I have has further strengthened on
ground claim support for our health
customers. In H1 of 2026, the initiative
touched over 58,000 customers up from
34,000 in the same period last year. We
received feedback from over 20 22,000
customers in H1 of 2026. 94.4% 4% rated
their experience as exemplary which has
given us 4.5 as a rating over five
highlighting the support during claims
processing and assistance within with
hospital coordination.
This reaffirms our focus on
best-in-class service to our customers
during the moment of truth that and that
is all that matters. Our retail health
claim settlement ratio within 30 days
stood at 99.6% 6% for H1 2026, placing
us among the industry top performers and
underscoring our commitment to prompt
efficient claim servicing.
The company launched differentiated
service debts in June 2025. These debts
provide tailored servicing for two
priority customer segments, senior
citizens and high product density
customers. By identifying these profiles
at the point of contact and routing them
to specialized customer relationship
managers, we ensure conversations are
empathetic, personalized, and
valuedriven. Over 96,000 calls were
handled between June to September under
this initiative, generating there 300
3,000 cross-ell opportunities. Our
belief is that differentiated care
sement builds loyalty and long-term
value. Our
take care app, a one-stop solution for
insurance and wellness need, has now
crossed 18.4 million downloads,
reflecting growing customer engagements
and digital adoption. The gross return
premium earned from the Takeare app
during the period H1 2026 was 2088.2
million with the premium earning of H1
2025 which stood at 8 million.
We have continuously enhanced our
efficiency levels in motor games. Our
preferred partner network services 75.1%
of our nonoem claims for quarter 2 2026
up from 72.8% in quarter 2 2025.
Furthermore, in the motor insurance own
damage segment, 96.4% of our total
claims were paid within 30 days for H1
2026.
If we look at the industry numbers for
the period quarter 1 2026, the same
stood at 82.4%.
Clearly highlighting IC Lumbar superior
claim settlement practice.
Our unwavering focus on putting the
customer for first continues to reflect
in our net promoter score for quarter 1
2026.
We recorded an NPS of 72 for health
claims and 66 promoter claims.
Demonstrating strong satisfaction level
and reinforcing our position as a
customercentric organization.
We continue to demonstrate strong
resilience in face of rapid evolving
industry dynamics underscoring our
unwavering focus on delivering
sustainable and long-term profitability.
Our strategic direction is firmly rooted
in a onele one team philosophy which
promotes collaboration, operational
excellence and a unified approach across
the organization. In conclusion, GST and
other regulatory reforms being positive
for the general insurance sector, we are
well positioned to ride this momentum,
responsibly scaling our reach,
sharpening our value proposition and
converting a more supportive demand
environment into sustained highquality
performance.
I will request Gupal to pick through the
financial numbers for the recently
concluded quarter and half year. Uh
thanks Sanjie and uh good evening to
each one of you. I will now give you a
brief overview of the financial
performance of the recently concluded
quarter and half year. We have uploaded
the results presentation on our website.
You can access it as we walk you through
the performance numbers. Uh with effect
from October 1, 2024, long-term products
are accounted on a 1 byN basis as
mandated by the regulator IID. Hence, H1
FI 2026 or for the matter of fact even
quarter 2 2026 FI numbers are not
comparable with the prior periods. Uh
please refer to our investor
presentation for further details. The
gross return premium of the company was
at rupes 151.11 billion in H1 FI26 as
against rupees 148.79 billion in H1 FI25
a growth of 1.6%.
GDP of the company was at rupes 143.31
billion in H1 FI26 as against rupes
144.09 billion in H1 FI25 a degrowth
of.5%
against the industry growth of 7.3%.
Excluding crop and mass health, GDP
growth of the company was at 3.5% as
against industic growth of 10.5% in H1
FI26.
GDP of the company was at rupees 65.96
billion in Q2 FI26 as against rupees
67.21
billion in Q2 FI25 a D growth of 1.9%
against the industry growth of 5.9% for
the same period. Excluding crop and mass
health, GDPI growth of the company was
at 3.5%.
As against the industry growth of 9.8%
in quarter 2 FI26, our GDPI during the
quarter was mainly driven by growth in
the preferred lines of business. The
overall GDPI of our commercial line
segment grew by 6.1% to rupees 15.84
billion in Q2 FI26 as against rupes
14.93 billion in Q2 FI25.
On the retail side of the business, GDP
of the motor segment was at rupes 25.11
billion in Q2 FI26 as against rupes
24.82 billion in Q2 FI25 registering a
growth of 1.2%.
The advanced premium numbers was rupes
39.13 billion as at September 30 2025 as
against rupes 38.07 billion as at June
30, 2025. GDP of the L segment was at
rupes 16.49 49 billion in Q2 FI26 as
against rupes 15.29 billion in Q2 FI25
registering a growth of 7.8%.
Our agents including the point of sale
distribution count was 1 lakh 47,408
as on September 30 2025 up from 143 675
as at June 30 2025. During the quarter
the industry witnessed multiple CAT
events mainly floods in various parts of
the country. thereby impacting our
combined ratio which was 104% for H1
FI26 as against 103.2% for H1 FI25
excluding the impact of CAT losses of
rupees 73 billion in H1 FI26 and rupees
94 billion in H1 FI25
the combined ratio was 103.3%
and 102.2% and 2% respectively.
Combined ratio was 105.1%
in Q2 FI26 as against 104.5% in Q2 FI25
excluding the impact of CAT losses of
rupees 73 billion in Q2 FI26 and 94
billion rupees in Q2 FI25. The combined
ratio was 103.8%
and 102.6% respectively. Our investment
assets during the quarter rose to rupes
562 billion as at September 30 to 2025
up from rupes 554.53 billion as at June
30, 2025. Our investment leverage net of
borrowings was 3.57 times as again
September 30, 2025 as against 3.74 times
as at June 30, 2025. Investment income
was at rupes 25.38 billion in H1 FI26 as
against rupees 22.52 billion in H1 FI25
on a quarterly basis investment income
was at rupes 12.49 billion in Q2 FI26 as
against rupes 11.24 billion in Q2 FI25
capital gains net of impairment on
investment assets stood at rupees 6.16
billion in H1 FI26 as compared to rupees
5.21 21 billion in H125.
Capital gains net of impairment on
investment assets stood at rupees 2.36
billion in Q2 FI26 as compared to almost
a similar number of rupees 2.37 billion
in Q2 FI25.
Our profit before tax grew by 22.3% and
stood at rupees 20.71 billion in H1 FI26
as against rupes 16.93 billion in H1
FI25. Whereas profit before tax grew by
17.2% 2% at rupes 10.77 billion in Q2
FI26 as against rupees 9.19 billion in
Q2 FI25. Consequently, profit after tax
grew by 22.9%
and stood at rupees 15.67 billion in H1
FI26 as against rupees 12.74 billion in
H1 FI25. PAD grew by 18.1% at rupes 8.2
2 billion in quarter 2 FI26 up from
rupees 6.94 billion in Q2 FI25.
Return on average equity was 20.8% in H1
FI26 as against 20.3% in H1 FI25. The
return on average equity for the quarter
2 FI26 was 21.4%.
As against 21.8% in Q2 FI25.
Solveny ratio was at 2.73 times as at
September 30, 2025 as against 2.7 times
as at June 30, 2025
continues to be higher than the minimum
regulatory requirement of 1.59 1.5
times. Solveny ratio was at 2.69 as at
March 31, 2025. The board of directors
of the company has declared an interim
dividend of rupes 6.5 per share for H1
FI26 as against rupees 5.5 per share for
H1 FI25.
As I conclude, I would like to reaffirm
that we continue to stay focused on
driving profitable growth and
sustainable value creation while
protecting the interest of our
stakeholders and customers at all times.
We'll be happy to take any questions
that you have. Thank you.
>> Thank you very much. We will now begin
with the question and answer session.
Anyone who wishes to ask a question may
press star and then one on their
touchstone phone. If you wish to remove
yourself from the question queue, you
may press star and two. Participants are
requested to use handsets while asking a
question. Ladies and gentlemen, we will
wait for a moment while the question
queue assembles.
Our
first question comes from the line of
pre chain from Motila Losal. Please go
ahead.
>> Yeah. Hi everyone. Congrats on a decent
set good set of numbers. Uh firstly you
know uh just on this GST uh impact right
uh the input tax credit will not be
available for the health insurance
piece. uh and so what was the impact of
that in uh whatever the sales would have
happened in uh 2Q and uh secondly you
know how uh going ahead how are you kind
of uh trying to offset this whether
through commission cards or uh balancing
it uh across the product um product
other products that you have that would
be my first question
>> so uh pre I I think u um u September
it's just about 9 days so and therefore
to that extent I think is honestly too
premature to kind of call out in terms
of uh what uh has been the impact. I
think the key thing to look out is what
we kind of spelt out as a part of the
opening script. I think what we are
seeing on ground I think the demand
momentum seems to be very very promising
and to that extent is what we have kind
of clearly uh got reflected as a part of
uh clearly increased volume of uh retail
health policies getting sourced. Uh I
think the key to look for is how do we
see let's say things playing out uh over
the next couple of quarters. We are very
very optimistic in terms of how this
particular reforms is likely to kind of
play out and in that context is how we
have kind of looked at even let's say
possibly the uh uh eventual impact of
any input tax credit on uh sourcing. I
think obviously to that extent I think
we have kind of I think which is which
is there I think we have clearly
communicated that uh it will be a part
of the overall distribution cost in
terms of how do we kind of manage the
cost of sourcing. So in that context is
what even any related input trade will
be part and parcel of that. That's the
way how we are looking at it. But more
importantly as I said I think what we
are quite excited and uh and optimistic
is the relative uh scale up that one
expects consequent to this uh reform
that has got announced. Yeah, I
absolutely I think Gopar uh press just
to uh put across uh we've been always
discussing debating in terms of what the
sweet spot can be can it be 12% can it
be this eventually this stimulus which
has come has been the biggest marketing
in terms of letting the customers or
every Indian know that how important
health insurance is and this move is
very significant in terms of managing a
cost structure uh something uh which any
which there was always a need. I think
the industry is working to make it much
more reasonable and it's also a win-win
because the volumes that will come on
account of that will also see that our
partners have enhanced you know income
which will come. So there is a clear
play which is evident and uh for us as a
multi-line company more so uh it puts us
in a very uh comfortable spot uh because
we've got other lines also. This is one
component of the whole thing and we are
seeing tremendous uh tailwinds. You can
see our own growth numbers on retail
generity uh which have been way ahead of
the industry and this further stimulus
that comes in also gives us an ability
to scale at a much faster speed with a
responsible underwriting. So the
guardrail which will continue to guide
us is that we underwrite in a
responsible manner and then the rest
should uh flow out and get evened out
with the every with the volumes that
will come through it.
>> Sure. uh but just further on that you
know uh Gopal or any any impact that you
would have seen in due to I understand
it's just for 9 days uh but you know
there would that have elevated the cost
ratios in this quarter uh in Tokyo for
the health segment and also uh you know
are you looking to increase the
distributor
uh are you looking to cut the
distributor commissions any
communications or any negotiations that
would have been started on the in in
that regard.
So one I think as we keep saying uh uh
pre I think uh when you look at the
sourcing uh objective particularly the
context of retail health we have always
kind of looked at in the context of the
combined ratio of the book that we are
kind of wanting to write at and there I
think clearly if you see even uh uh on
the on the loss experiences pretty much
uh even if you look at quarter two or
even for the matter of fact half year I
think the loss experience have pretty
much played out in line with our uh
expectations. So hence to that extent I
think the portfolio is kind of doing
well and linked to that is our cost of
sourcing which is obviously a part and
parcel of the overall combined numbers
which is what I called out at this point
of time. The way we are looking at is uh
I think whatever cost that we would
incur as a part of uh of sourcing we'll
pretty much factor in also the related
possible loss that one is like expected
to see consequent to any loss of input
trade that we will see in the context of
retail health. But having said that I
think what what is more relevant is what
even Sanji was kind of articulating. I
think we will be kind of pretty much uh
kind of pleased to look at how things
will play out for quarter three and this
is something that even the distributors
will start kind of uh seeing the impact
and the benefits. uh the increased
volumes automatically translates into a
better revenue stream for them and
therefore when they look at their
overall u distribution income uh they
would kind of clearly realize that they
are clearly far better off in terms of
where they are and at this point of time
no significant changes to let's say
whatever our overall uh cost of sourcing
has been I think anything that we would
incur as a part of sourcing would also
include the elements of input tax
dissolvance possibly that we will see on
the retail
Got that. Uh goal. The other question
was if I look at the uh NWP to GWP
uh that ratio is uh uh has inched up uh
uh any change in reinsurance strategy
which has kind of moved that or it's
just a product mix kind of a uh change.
>> You you have the answer pre and uh so
therefore to that exchange is what we
keep saying. I think uh our businesses
is obviously kind of cyclical on
different lines of businesses. Uh as you
would have seen uh in quarter two last
year, I think we did have a relatively
higher proportion of uh crop mix uh
which obviously has a relatively lower
retention compared to that. If you would
have seen quarter two of this year, I
think our proportion of crop is
definitely much lower and hence to that
extent and therefore to that extent and
and the fact that retail health for us
has kind of done very well. Uh I mean it
was Q2 of last year is when we had kind
of largely launched elevate as a
solution and through the next 12 months
as we speak is where we have been able
to kind of witness an improvement in uh
sourcing and which is what we spoke
about also market share in the month of
September exceeding more than 4%. uh so
given the fact that that was also kind
of done well where predominantly we kind
of end up retaining a large part of the
risk on the net. Hence short answer no
change to the thought process in terms
of uh reinsurance philosophy more the
outcome on the net premium to gross
premium is purely a function of the
change in the business mix between
quarters
>> last question uh
>> sorry to interrupt pre sir may we
request you return to the question queue
for follow-up questions
>> thank you
>> thank you uh ladies and gentlemen in
order to ensure that the management is
able to address questions from all the
participants in the conference please
limit your questions to only two per
participant. If you have any follow-up
questions, you may rejoin the queue. I
our next question comes from the line of
Madukar Lada from Noama Wealth
Management. Please go ahead.
>> Uh hi. Uh so uh couple of questions from
my side. Uh first uh if I look at the
commission ratio that's uh in stock uh
significantly in uh Q2. So uh probably
more uh you know product mix and is it
also because of uh longerterm products
that we're writing? Uh is it because of
that? Uh second
uh on motor OD we see an inch up in the
loss ratio
uh and uh you know very high comparative
intensity and we're losing sort of
market share uh also in in that line of
business.
So uh with with the GST cut uh what
would you expect from here? Do we should
we expect sort of the competitive
intensity to come down and uh some
market share recovery happening over
there and why are our loss ratios going
up despite we being sort of more
conservative in this line of business?
So Badukar I think on the first part I
think again as we keep saying one is
what you rightly answered and what I
kind of talked about I think there is an
always an element of change in uh change
in the business mix in terms of what you
look at uh in quarter two versus let's
say quarter 1 or even for the matter of
fact when you look at even within a
comparable quarter uh but the larger the
larger way that we have always looked at
is in the context of the overall expense
of management which as a company as we
keep is something that we are very very
conscious of and even if whether you
look at it for uh on a half yearly basis
I think our uh our expensive management
numbers are well within the limits of
the 30% threshold that uh one has put
out uh so hence in that context I think
we are pretty much on course in terms of
what we want to do and again at the end
of the day commission ratios again
whichever way you look at it will also
be a function of what mix of business do
you end up doing more in terms of new uh
renewal
And in the context of retail health that
we spoke about I think that's kind of
doing well uh in terms of the overall
loss experience a large part of the book
that we have sourced also in comes in
the context of as a a new growth and
that would entail some amount of uh cost
of sourcing. So, so a lot of factors but
if you ask us I think what we are quite
comfortable with is the fact that I
spoke about in the context of making
sure that we stay within the guarded
rail of uh within that 30% limit on
overall acceptance of management to your
point impact uh sorry is there any
impact of GST uh ITC not
>> which is what I called out I think at at
least so far as quarter 2 is concerned
which is why I kind of also responded to
pri's question I think uh at this point
of time honestly uh the commission ratio
does not have any factor uh any
significant impact at least in so far as
uh
>> the impact of GST is concerned. uh to
the second point on the motor uh own
damage loss ratios I think this is
something that I keep talking every
quarter um for I think we should keep
looking at uh one is of course is is
quarter to quarter a right comparison
honestly as we keep saying there are
various factors or nuances that go into
uh the loss ratio numbers and uh
secondly as I as we have always
mentioned in the past I think the better
way to look at is more in terms of motor
as a category and that to more on
ideally on a year-to-ate bas This is and
if you and if you recolct just to
refresh the overall motor loss ratio
range that we have spoken about to the
streets have been in the range of 65 to
67%. And even if you look at the first
half numbers for overall motor I think
the overall loss ratio stands that if I
remember the numbers correctly it's
about 66.6%.
So it's well within that range of 65 to
67% in terms of what we want to operate
and hence but yes between periods there
can always be let's say some bit of uh
volatility to the overall loss numbers
but honestly I think what we are again
comfortable with is within the range
that one is operating at
>> and also Maduka just to add to this for
you and everybody else who are you know
on the call is also the configuration of
business if you see uh relatively if the
new business is on the higher side the
loss ratios do tend to get lower while
the old one the loss ratios are high. So
there's a mix that comes in and uh you
know that the growth if you leave aside
what happened you know prior to
September 22nd uh was very muted. So we
were seeing lot more growth coming from
the old waker where loss loss ratio can
be a bit more elevated. So there there's
element also which gets played out uh uh
we and there is also quarter to little
bit of CAD part that comes on to play
which makes the loss ratios look
elevated. So there's a combination which
has got us. We don't see any challenge.
We continue to maintain our discipline
and we are excited about the fact that
uh the industry may probably see record
numbers in the coming quarter.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> And uh just on the comparative
intensity,
>> sorry to interrupt comment on that sir.
Sorry to interrupt. May we request you
return to the queue for follow-up
questions please as there are several
other participants waiting for their
turn.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of
Sankit Goa from Aenders Park. Please go
ahead.
>> Uh yeah. Uh thank you for the
opportunity. Uh uh Gopal given given GST
cut IDV will come down. So it is fair to
assume that um your your motor OD loss
ratios invariably will go up uh because
of the vehicle GST cuts and and do you
think the RO depletion which could
happen because of the higher loss ratios
in motor OD can it be more than
compensated or at least compensated by
the extra float either in the form of
advanced premium or or the premium
you'll collect because of the new sales
will be good enough to to to to see the
uh positive rough on the profitability
and and related to that on on TP side uh
given given uh GST on CV has been
reduced and and uh and and you have
input credit benefit so in indirectly it
is kind of a price hike to you guys so
so just wondering that given we were
never that's such a strong player in CV
segment uh given given we are seeing a
bit of uptick in CV segment in second
quarter compared to 1Q whether whether
you'll change a bit of strategy on CV
going ahead or not so so that's that's
largely the question I have on motorbs
Yeah, I think possibly Sankit you have
actually answered what you wanted to
ask. So therefore to that extent I think
pretty much uh pretty much uh pretty
much what you kind of asked. I think uh
one um I think on the motor owned damage
side again let's look at it in the
context of what's happening on ground. I
think there seems to be clearly a lot of
festive cheer that clearly is an element
of pent-up demand and therefore pretty
much similar to what I spoke in the
context of health. I think what we are
again uh then this is there in terms of
the data that was released by far which
is what we kind of also put out as a
part of the opening transcript. Clearly
there is seems to be a renewed momentum
on ground in terms of uh in terms of
increased uh volume of vehicle sales and
that's an area from an ISIS alone
standpoint where we clearly have an edge
and that's the reason why we have
specifically also called out to see say
that relative to what one had
experienced in the first five months
when you look at particularly for the
month of September I think we have been
able to kind of get back a lot of our uh
uh lost momentum and to that extent I
think we believe we are positively
placed in so far as the opportunity for
the future is concerned on the impact on
uh the possible deduction. Of course as
we have again articulated as a
responsible uh institution we will
obviously make sure that whatever is
required to be passed on to the
consumers in the form of uh the reforms
that has been entailed pretty much on
course to make sure that all of those
things will be completely passed on and
that's what we have done and uh and of
course uh as you rightly said there are
those various factors depending on what
volumes or what type of vehicles are
customers wanting to buy will be a
factor to determine how some part of the
impact will get played out. Our own
efficiency that we can bring about in
the context of the business mix that we
write will also be an element that will
kind of to some extent uh take care of
some of the possible impact that one
would uh see on the book assuming we
don't do uh anything on uh on on the uh
on the uh drop in the value of the
vehicle and three is obviously again a
function of the claim efficiencies. I
think as an organization again we have
been speak we have time and again spoken
about the various claim intervention
initiatives that we have kind of worked
on all of this as which is why we called
out even at the time when these
announcements were made we had said that
all said and done I think from an ISIS
Lombard standpoint I think we should be
able to kind of take some of this
impacts within the overall scale of
operations. uh I think the key thing to
look out for will be how does things
play out over the next couple of
quarters which is where we are kind of
very very positive and optimistic in
terms of how do we see things playing
out on ground on the impact side I think
we think this is something that we
should be able to kind of manage within
the overall scale of operations
got and and lastly on data keeping with
reinsurance accepted business 462 crores
what we did in sec current quarter or
even a much bigger number in first half
it is largely related to which line of
business uh and this number will
continue even in second half.
>> No again sankit this question just does
keep coming uh to us uh on different uh
at different time points. I think as
what we have clearly maintained is
pretty much similar to what we have kind
of talked about in the context of uh
crop. I think uh these are opportunistic
uh these are opportunistic uh calls that
we take purely from an underwriting
standpoint. uh whatever fits within our
underwriting acceptances criteria is
what we end up writing whether it is for
direct or even for the matter of fact as
reinsurancees acceptances but each of
this even if you look at it on a full
year basis for example last year our
overall proportion of reinsurance
acceptances to the total volume of gross
premiums that we would have underwritten
as a company has been clearly a
single-digit number uh so when you start
looking at some of these numbers
particularly with a quarter I think
there can always be aggressions when you
look start look at in the context of
percentages is but if you ask us from a
thought process or let's say from a
philosophy standpoints purely guided by
the underwriting filters that we kind of
put in terms of risk acceptance and do
we expect each of these to suddenly
become a very large proportion of our
overall gross premium the short answer
is no it will be well within the defined
limits that we have as an institution
>> got you Gopas thanks thanks for the
answers
>> thanks
thank you our next question comes from
the line of Nidesh from Invest please go
ahead Go ahead.
>> Uh thanks for the opportunity. My
question is on retail health insurance.
Uh uh so can you shave uh loss ratios in
the retail health insurance and group
health insurance for the quarter and
second is uh what is the share of uh
agency and non- agency channel in the
retail health insurance? I'm trying to
understand how how we have been able to
show pretty strong growth in retail
health insurance over last one year.
>> Yeah, I was just waiting for this
question to be asked in the context of
the split between uh loss ratio. on uh
retail inity and let's say the uh
corporate health. Uh so uh so if you
I'll just first give the numbers for
quarter two last year uh and first I
will give the group health or let's say
the employer employee health numbers. Uh
Q2 last year uh employer employee or
group health numbers was 98% on the loss
ratio. Uh this number for quarter two of
the current year stands at about 93.7%.
uh and on a half yearly basis again
employer employee loss ratio H1 last
year that number was 98%. This number
for H1 of the current year is at 94.6%.
Uh that's employer employee health. On
retail indemnity again in the same order
quarter 2 last year the loss ratio was
70.3%.
And H1 of last year was 71.4%.
And uh if you look at quarter 2 of the
current year, the loss ratio on retail
indemnity stands at 65.4%.
And on a half yearly basis, it stands at
about 69.7%.
Now just to kind of again refresh on the
retail indemnity book pretty much
similar to what I spoke about on uh
overall motor where to the streets we
have been generally talking about a loss
ratio range that you are comfortable at
65 to 67%. Even on retail health
indemnity the range that we have been
speaking about is to maintain the loss
ratio in the range of 65 to 70 and if
you see on a half yearly basis on the
retail health indemnity book the loss
ratio is within that range of 65 to 70.
So that's where we are in terms of uh
the split of the loss ratio numbers on
the split of uh the business between uh
agency and other than agency. Generally
the proportion of the book that we do
through agency is about uh 2/3 roughly
and the rest of the book will be of the
balance one/3
>> and both channels are growing as a
similar pace or
>> agency has been relatively faster at
this point of time uh but it's uh both
of them are in very high zone because
the overall growth itself of the book is
in the 50s range if you look at NBC So
there's a significant traction that we
see and uh we are excited about both the
opportunities whether agency or non-
agency.
>> Sure. Sure. Thank you. Uh that's it from
my side.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
the line of Ain Singh from MK Global.
Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. Hi. Uh good evening. Thanks for
the opportunity. Uh two questions. First
uh can you please sort of provide some
color on your market share in motor in
terms of new air and renewal uh I mean
I'm asking because if I understand
correctly I mean your pricing is uh
reasonably higher than aggressive
competitors and you have a kind of a
strong acceptance at uh the dealer
points uh so in that context I wanted to
understand if there's a wide divergence
in market share in the new uh v renewal
market in motor that's one Second uh now
uh with this uh GST thing in action uh
in terms of growth driver at the
industry level what do I mean do you
think industry uh at the aggregate level
going to uh return to a strong growth
phase probably in the next year or so
because I mean uh in the recent year
motor vehicle sales have been one kind
of a point uh pinpoint then you also had
some of these schemes fading out of
course does not matter for you much but
like crop insurance and all that have
been seeing a bit of a decline. So at
the aggregate level what could be the in
terms of value terms premium driver for
the industry probably in F27. Thanks.
>> So uh Avin uh honestly I think what we
can talk about is more at an aggregate
level in terms of motor as a category uh
in terms of market share which is there
if you look at the first half of uh last
year we had a market share of roughly
about 10.9%. And if you look at the
first half of the current year, we have
a market share of roughly about 10.4%.
Uh this is both half year to half year.
Uh within that, I think uh we keep kind
of toggling between new and renewal. So
honestly, I think too difficult to kind
of call out specifically what could be
the market share because that could keep
changing depending on what kind of a mix
of the portfolio that one wants to kind
of underwrite. So that's the reason why
we we're not specifically calling out in
terms of what would be a market share
between new and what would be a market
share between uh the renewal book. To
your second point on uh do we expect the
demand on ground to sustain even for the
next year? I think honestly we will we
will we will obviously play through the
quarters uh in terms of how how one sees
uh uh demand paying out which is what we
called out even about on the opening
transcript. I think the good part is I
think the the the the the pace of
reforms that has been exhibited across
the various regulatory authorities I
think has clearly set the tone on ground
and that's also kind of reflective in
terms of the outcomes that one has seen
in the initial uh few days of let's say
the quarter ended uh September and the
good news is I think I'm sure all of you
are also equally tracking in terms of
what's happening on ground uh
particularly with respect to the volume
of vehicle sales fields that's playing
out uh at the initial indications even
one was if one was to see in the months
of October I think the the demand
definitely is kind of uh continuing and
therefore there is a clear expectation
with some of these some of these
actions/reforms that has been exhibited
as I said by the various regulatory
authorities looks to be very very kind
of conducive for the momentum to kind of
sustain over the next few quarters but
honestly we will keep coming back to all
of you in terms of what do we see on
ground uh across various quarters but at
least clearly the as what one said uh
the tone that has been set clearly looks
quite promising when you look at the
road ahead
no no absolutely right and you know if
even if you look at in a bit of a you
know you get to the second layer of
number the total incremental accretion
in motor has been around 3,300 cr and
you see the distribution of that pie you
realize that you know one PSU itself has
picked up more than 1,000 crores so it's
been a very skewed one where you know
things have moved in a not in a
distributed manner and whenever
something like this is there we'll have
to be very very picky. We still continue
to be number one player as far as motor
category is concerned. We do acknowledge
the fact that there's a loss of half a
percent. It's more tactical where we do
believe if it's not making sense, we
will uh we will let it pass. Uh but we
also are aware that no one can keep
doing something like this over sustained
quarters after quarters. So we we need
to be patient. Uh and just to add on to
the fact uh clearly yes uh new is a
strength and we do see tremendous uh
train tailwind and we spoke about it
very categorically. Will that lead to
motor industry per say showing a better
growth? My the belief and the answer is
clearly we do believe so but it has to
pan out on a more consistent basis. The
only element that we want to exist at
this point of time is there was a
pent-up demand which also was there
because post 15 there wasn't much
happening in the market. Uh our math
says even adjust to that adjusted to
that the excitement in the market uh is
very high and uh we will stay connected.
I'm sure those numbers are which you are
all you all are very well aware of but
we see a significant opportunity in
quarter three and probably even H2 of
this financial year and this should
occur well for the industry uh even for
uh next financial year if that's what
your question is
>> thank any view on motor TP tariffs
>> uh well your guess will be as good as
ours we keep hearing that something is
on the anvil and the industry's demand
per say on seeing uh some bit of a hike
or adjustment or realignment of motor TP
is there in every single forum and we do
expect and believe that we will hear a
positive news on that sooner than later.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Very clear.
>> Thanks Ain. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
Sha Shivani from Nura. Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. Hi. Uh thank you for the
opportunity. Uh I just have one
question. Uh this is on the commercial
segment. Um I mean there have been many
media articles. Uh whether it be fire,
marine, crop, there is increased uh
competitive uh there's increased
competition in the segment. Now I
understand that you guys are still
growing quite well. However, if I look
at your underwriting profit in the fire
book, 1H over 1, it's down. the
underwriting profit in the miscellaneous
corporate book. Uh I mean it's turned uh
lossmaking in this one versus previous
one. So uh is it fair to assess that um
uh there has been some uh impact on our
book because of the competition or the
price war that's going on in the segment
in spite of the growth that we've been
delivering. Uh that's just that's the
only question I have.
So, so Sh I think again um I think
particularly on commercial lines uh the
portfolio inherently subject to an
element of volatility when you look at
it purely from an absolute underwriting
outcome and the reason why we are one is
saying this is uh I think increasingly
you are getting to experience a lot many
more catastrophic events play out or as
a matter of fact even if you possibly
experience any large risk event then to
that extent you may possibly see the
outcome of the underwriting book uh kind
of reflecting an outcome which for a
particular given period could be adverse
compared to any other uh uh relative
reference uh quarters. But having said
that I think from our standpoint I think
which is what we have been talking
through consistently our approach or
thought process to writing risk has been
to kind of keep looking for prudent/p
profofitable risk selection uh portfolio
uh that's not just across commissioners
even across other lines of businesses
and that's the reason why I think at an
aggregate level in the initial few
months we actually have been kind of uh
losing again some market uh but the good
news is again uh things seems to be kind
of looking up quite positively for us
when you see the month of September and
hence to that extent we continue to stay
looking for profitable uh risk selection
uh opportunities
outcomes on underwriting whether you
take fire whether you take miscellaneous
corporate or for the matter of fact
anything from an absolute basis will be
purely reflection of some of the loss
events that could have got played out in
that particular quarter. The real
reflection is I think that's what we
keep saying on the overall commercial
lines book. I think that's a book that
has inherently generated us good uh good
cash flows. Uh it has also enabled us to
kind of generate better roe and overall
the book that we've been writing has
been a decent uh combined ratio outcome.
So that's something from a philosophy
standpoint that we stand committed but
as I said in a given quarter or so from
an absolute outcome will be purely a
function of some of the loss events. So,
so ideally what time period should I
look if I want to understand the fire
performance?
>> So, precious time period I think
submission of quarters which is there
the past 3 years or so if you look at
where the average is can give you a very
decent indication in terms of where the
loss ratio resides. Uh a quarterto
quarter movement as Gopal explained can
be very you know dangerous to take a
call. Uh the long and short which we can
put across very confidently is there was
a cat event there was one or two large
losses which is kind of reflected but it
can play out uh over you know a couple
of quarters and you'll see uh a
moderation in the loss ratio overall in
time to come but the best way to look at
it is dig in the in the past and see in
summation if you look at last you know
16 you know 10 quarters 12 quarters how
does the loss ratio moves you will get a
very clear indication that this is what
the broadly the range is uh in our mind
uh this is absolutely nothing in fact I
can share with you that the rate which
is there on the risk basis uh we've
realized more than 20% than what we used
to and I would also put across the fact
that this was on a lower base last uh
year if you see the commentary that we
had on fire uh the industry was not
pricing it appropriately some bit of
semblance has come and that has helped
uh uh each of the industry player
including ourselves. Uh but what we not
what we pride is not on the incremental
risk but the selection of risk that we
want to write and that is what uh can be
a big differentiator over submission of
quarters.
>> Got it. This is very useful. Uh thank
you and all the best.
>> Thanks Sh. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Our next question comes from
the line of Nirjnal from UPS securities.
Please go ahead.
>> Yeah. Uh hi everyone. So I think uh a
lot of debate has already happened on
theirs but still uh to get more sense on
uh how should one think about you know
second half in terms of growth and
combine both uh any color will be more
helpful because uh definitely 9 days
have been positive but uh but to get a
sense of you know uh uh because will be
obvious also in terms of one by impact
which started from last 1 October uh
which will also be a uh you know
positive thing uh to support growth. How
should one think about growth and then
obviously in terms of underwriting
profits and then overall profits?
>> Thanks. Thanks N. Finally uh hopefully
from next quarter onwards we don't have
to really kind of talk about this N and
one by N. Therefore to that extent I
think all of us uh there will be one set
of numbers that we will kind of uh start
looking at it collectively. uh but
having said that uh I think if you look
at uh the narrative that we have largely
spoken uh nearest to all of you is that
uh I think uh on ground I think which is
what we kind of have been calling out I
think we are very very excited and
pleased with with how some of the
regulatory actions are getting
translated in terms of reforms on ground
and hence to that extent I think from an
IC alumba standpoint I think we're very
very well poised to capitalize this
opportunity of growth across uh streams
of businesses So hence to that extent I
think possibly the extent of uh market
share loss that one had seen
particularly over the last couple of few
quarters I think one definitely expects
that particular trend line to start
getting reversed and hence to that
extent in line with what we have been
saying we should logically start getting
incremental market share with the
industry uh overall growth numbers
that's more from an overall growth
standpoint but when it comes to more
combined ratios/ roe I think both Sanjie
and all of I think in general I think
what we have been talking about is to
try and sustain that ROE in that range
of 18 to 20%. And even if you look at it
whether you look at quarter two or even
if even for the matter of fact if you
look at half year I think we have
largely been able to kind of stay around
the range of 18 to 20% from an ROE. Uh
so and therefore even as we head into
the second half I think we'll be
extremely mindful of making sure that we
able to we are able to sustain this. uh
but all of this we will obviously keep a
very very close watch in terms of how
the industry is also kind of uh
declaring their numbers. I think we do
understand that some companies have
started declaring results for water too.
Uh so and we will see the directional
trend on uh how it plays out but from
our standpoint I think that's Sanji if
you add anything.
>> No no I think we've spoken and this is
uh well spoken. I think nothing more to
add to this
>> about it. And uh just one bookkeeping
what is what is the yield uh right now
and the duration of the book and the
long-term portfolio now versus last
year. So
>> the duration of the book is about 4.74
years and the yield on the book uh YTM
is about 7.39%.
And on the long-term portfolio uh if we
have that data handy
a long-term portfolio if are you
referring in the context of uh on the
business side?
>> Yes. Uh
refer to the yield.
>> So on N to 1 by I think that's a number
that we have called out separately. Uh
Naj in our investor tech. I think if you
look at the total long-term premium that
could have got recognized as premium on
a half yearly basis is roughly about 6.2
billion and for the quarter that number
stands at roughly about 3.6 billion.
>> Uh that is uh thank you.
>> Thanks. Thank you.
>> Thank you ladies and gentlemen. We will
take this as the last question for
today. I now hand the conference over to
the management uh for closing comments.
>> I think great I think thank you so much
uh for joining in. Uh we run into uh
festivities uh uh going forward. So we
would wish each one of you and your
family members a great safe happy
Diwali. These are exciting times for us
as an industry.
While there are some questions in terms
of how it will evolve, we truly believe
that uh directionally H2 would see far
more tailwinds. So we will stay
connected. We will uh uh we will look we
look forward to meeting with each one of
you uh as and when you are back with
your respective holidays. Have a great
time with your families and uh be safe,
be happy. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
On behalf of ICICI Lumbar General
Insurance Company Limited, that
concludes this conference. Thank you all
for joining us and you may now
disconnect your lines.